
=head1 NAME

umph - Command line tool for parsing YouTube feeds

=head1 SYNOPSIS

umph [-q] [-i] [--type=E<lt>valueE<gt>]
     [--export-response=E<lt>valueE<gt>] [--export-format=E<lt>valueE<gt>]
     [[--all | [--start-index=E<lt>valueE<gt>] [--max-results=E<lt>valueE<gt>]]
     [--proxy=E<lt>addrE<gt> | --no-proxy] [--help]
     E<lt>playlist_idE<gt> | E<lt>usernameE<gt>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

umph is a command line tool for parsing YouTube feeds. It can parse
playlists, favorite lists, and user upload lists.

umph prints the found URLs to the standard output, each URL separated
with a newline. It can be used to select the feed items by using the
C<--interactive> prompt.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 -h, --help

Print help and exit.

=head2 -v, --version

Print version and exit.

=head2 -q, --quiet

Turn off output to stderr, e.g. status changes. Warnings and errors are
still printed.

=head2 -t, --type I<arg> (=p)

Specifies the feed type to get. I<arg> can be one of the following:

 p, playlist  (arg0 will be treated as playlist ID)
 f, favorites (arg0 will be treated as username)
 u, uploads   (ditto)

See also L</EXAMPLES>.

=head2 -s, --start-index I<arg> (=1)

"The start-index parameter specifies the index of the first matching result
that should be included in the result set. This parameter uses a one-based
index, meaning the first result is 1, the second result is 2 and so forth.

This parameter works in conjunction with the C<--max-results> parameter to
determine which results to return. For example, to request the second set
of 10 results, i.e. results 11-20, set the start-index parameter to 11
and the max-results parameter to 10." -- E<lt>http://is.gd/l4wDNfE<gt>

C<--all> causes umph to ignore the value set with this option.

=head2 -m, --max-results I<arg> (=25)

"The max-results parameter specifies the maximum number of results that
should be included in the result set.

This parameter works in conjunction with the C<--start-index>  parameter
to determine which results to return. For example, to request the second
set of 10 results, i.e. results 11-20, set the max-results parameter
to 10 and the start-index parameter to 11.

The default value of this parameter is 25, and the maximum value is 50.
However, for displaying lists of videos, we recommend that you set the
max-results parameter to 10." -- E<lt>http://is.gd/OcSjwUE<gt>

C<--all> causes umph to ignore the value set with this option.

=head2 -a, --all

Get the entire feed.

=head2 -i, --interactive

Open the interactive prompt which can be used to select the items.
umph selects I<all> feed items by default. See also L</INTERACTIVE PROMPT>.

=head2 -E, --export-response I<arg>

Write server error response (XML) to file I<arg> and exit with status 1.
Normally, the program parses the response and prints it to the stderr.

=head2 -d, --export-format I<arg>

Set the interchange format in which the data is to be printed.
Possible values:

 json .. Print in JSON
 csv  .. Print in CSV

By default, umph prints out each media URL separated by a newline.

=head2 --json [depr.]

Print details in JSON. Negates --csv.
This option is deprecated since 0.2.2, use C<--export-format>, instead.

=head2 --csv [depr.]

Print details in CSV.
This option is deprecated since 0.2.2, use C<--export-format>, instead.

=head2 --proxy I<arg>

Use I<arg> for HTTP proxy, e.g. "http://foo:1234". Overrides the http_proxy
environment setting.

=head2 --no-proxy

Disable use of HTTP proxy. Overrides both C<--proxy> and B<http_proxy>
environment settings.

=head1 INTERACTIVE PROMPT

The interactive prompt may be used to select the feed items. The prompt may be
useful when the feed contains many items and you wish to limit the
selection to cover only some of them.

=head2 NOTE

This requires the Umph::Prompt module.

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 umph AAF3A1D0CA1E304F

Get playlist "AAF3A1D0CA1E304F".

=head2 umph --json AAF3A1D0CA1E304F

Same as above, but print the details in JSON.

=head2 umph -s 11 -m 10 AAF3A1D0CA1E304F

Same as above but get the items 11-20 from the playlist.

=head2 umph -a AAF3A1D0CA1E304F

Similar but get I<all> of the items in the playlist. By default, umph gets
only the items 1-25 from the list. See also C<--start-index> and
C<--max-results>.

=head2 umph -t f foo

Get favorites for user "foo".

=head2 umph -t u foo

Get uploads for user "foo".

=head2 umph -i -a AAF3A1D0CA1E304F | cclive

Parse the entire playlist (-a), select the items using the interactive
prompt (-i) and download the selection with C<cclive(1)>.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

Exits 0 on success, otherwise 1.

=head1 FILES

=head2 ~/.umphrc

Many of the options may be set in this file.

=head3 Example

echo "--interactive" E<gt> ~/.umphrc

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=head2 http_proxy

LWP::UserAgent reads the B<http_proxy> setting. See also C<--proxy> and
C<--no-proxy>.

=head3 Example

env http_proxy=http://foo:1234 umph AAF3A1D0CA1E304F

=head1 NOTES

=head2 Unavailable feeds

umph cannot parse "private" lists.

=head1 WWW

 Home  : http://umph.googlecode.com/
 gitweb: http://repo.or.cz/w/umph.git

=head1 LICENSE

umph is free software, licensed under the GPLv3+.

=head1 AUTHOR

Toni Gundogdu <legatvs at sign cpan org>
